---
title: Thoughts
date: 2023-02-20
tags:
  - meta
draft: false
comments: true
description: >-
  New section to replace my old logs approach.
---

Between 2021 and 2022, I ~~forced~~ challenged myself to [write a "log" every
week][logs]. Each of these logs contains my life updates for the week. If
things were not moving too fast, a new log would be up every Sunday or Monday.
In practice, it could be some other day.

When I moved to the UK in 2022, I fell behind on my logs. I tried to catch up
by just writing the current week's log while filling in the missing weeks. It
didn't take long for me to realise that this would be ~~too much work~~ missing
the main point of why the logs were written in the first place.

I wanted to write free-form content that's not necessarily as polished as blog
posts usually are. I also wanted to get used to writing on a regular basis, and
writing life updates sounded like a good idea, as I wouldn't have to come up
with ideas every week.

Though...

After a little more than a year of doing it, it started to feel mundane. Within
a single week, there might not be much that happened, yet sometimes there's
_too much_. There's also the guilt that I felt when I missed a log by a few
days, or sometimes more than a week. It was not always great.

The logs were a bit overdone, in a way. Each one had a title _and_ a
description (even if the latter only showed up in a `<meta>` tag 🤦). More
often than not, coming up with both of them could take way too much time than
necessary.

That said, I'd still like to have a place to write free-form content on my
personal website. So I'm thinking, let's loosen up a bit.

I'll write when I want to. What's in the writing? It could be anything. Life
updates, new stuff I found, or whatever. In fact, I've always wanted to add a
TIL section to my website, but I just couldn't find the time to do it with
proper tagging/categorisation/search and all that jazz to actually make it
useful and searchable. Maybe I'll put some TILs every now and then, and I'll
extract them to a proper TIL database _eventually_. Like [this][jbranchaud-til]
or [this][simonw-til].

So, let's make yet another section! What should we name it... thoughts? 🤔

Yeah, that sounds good. That's what it is.

Let's not have a `YYwWW` (made-up) format for the slug that would keep me awake
at night if I missed an entry. Let's just have a simple, standard `YYYY-MM-DD`
format for each one.

"But what if you want to have multiple entries in a day?"

Whoa, hold your horses mate.

I could barely write one a week.

Even if for some reason I get so fired up that I write so much content in a day,
that doesn't mean it cannot fit in one entry.

Or, you know, we can always split it and save the other part for another day.

So! Here's a thought for you.

Enjoy, and may many more of these thoughts soon come to you.

[logs]: /logs
[jbranchaud-til]: https://github.com/jbranchaud/til
[simonw-til]: https://github.com/simonw/til
