---
title: Back and forth
date: 2024-05-06
tags:
  - meta
draft: false
comments: false
description: >-
  Familiar faces in unfamiliar times brings comfort in its own ways.
  Puzzle pieces can be hard to understand sometimes.
---

Was hoping to get back sooner, ~~as always~~. Alas...

Spent the last month and a half back in Jakarta. Got lots to unpack.

Looking back, that amount of time was probably not ideal. It's so long that you
start getting used to it, the feeling of being home. Yet, it's too short to
make you feel like you belong – you know you'll leave sooner rather than later.
And you won't be back for another year.

Don't get me wrong, I like being home. Seeing friends and family. The people
you love. It's just that, living by myself has taught me that having your own
space is such a valuable thing. It hadn't occurred to my mind until recently
just how much _that_ means.

It might just be the circumstances, but I felt that coming back this year put a
lot more strain on me than last. Yet, it also brought so much more joy. The
highs were much higher, and the lows... well, I'd rather not talk about them.

I am so, so glad to have so many wonderful people around me.

My family, while not perfect, is something I take for granted sometimes.

I find it hard to make friends as I grow older. Maintaining existing friendships
is no small feat, either. I'm very grateful for my friends who reached out and
spared some time to catch up. To see familiar faces, in these unfamiliar times,
is comforting in ways I cannot feel from anything else.

As for those I didn't get a chance to catch up with, I'm sorry. I wish the
circumstances had let me.

For some, I wish I had the courage to ask. After being apart for so long, it's
tough. Maybe I'm just a coward, too scared of what would happen. Maybe the pains
would cast a shadow over the memories. Maybe I'm just being unreasonable and
reading whole pages in between the lines, but something tells me there's some
truth to it.

Uncharted paths ahead. It's hard to discern, but there is what looks like a
crossroads. Or perhaps, it's just one straight path and I've been spinning in
circles. Stumbling back and forth. Unsure to move along or turn around. I wish I
could tell, but it's disorientating, and I'm just as stumped.

As I trod, there's this puzzle piece that flew by and hit my head. It stung
a little. It fell on top of the other pieces, forming a shape I came across
years ago.

I tried piecing it together, but I might've tried too hard this time. In
hindsight, it seemed like a bad idea. Given my history, it's probably best left
as it was. Perhaps it's for a different set. Unless, for some reason, it pieced
itself together somehow. Which is extremely unlikely.

Experience has taught us lessons. How we choose to learn from, and make use of
them, is an exercise best left to the reader.

In the mean time, there is enough on the plate, so let's just focus on that.

Just hope everything goes well =)
